# Laravel Starter Kit

## Check versions
- Check the PHP and composer and laravel version by following commans:
```bash
composer -V
```

- Check laravel version by following commands:
```bash
laravel -V
```
```bash
php artisan --version
```

- Check node version by following command:
```bash
node -v
```

- Check mysql version by following command:
```bash
mysql -V
```

## Start new project

### After installing composer and laravel one can start a new project from command line by running

```bash
laravel new laravel-example-app
```

- It will show options to select starter kit.
 |   ○ No starter kit
 │   ○ Laravel Breeze
 │   ○ Laravel Jetstream

- For simplicity use `Laravel Breeze`

- Then you will be asked to select Breeze stack for installation.
 │ › ● Blade with Alpine
 │   ○ Livewire (Volt Class API) with Alpine
 │   ○ Livewire (Volt Functional API) with Alpine
 │   ○ React with Inertia
 │   ○ Vue with Inertia

- PHP supports `Blade template` by default. [Alpine.js](https://alpinejs.dev/) is a lightweight JS framework which is easy to learn. Other options are little higher level. So, it is good to choice `Blade with Alpine`

- Next, you have to select if you want to have dark mode support. To keep it simple, select `No`
  
- Then you will be asked: `Which testing framework do you prefer?`
 │   ○ Pest
 │   ○ PHPUnit

- `Pest` is more modern than `PHPUnit` which uses test using functional approach instead of class based approach. Select it for now.

- Next, you will be asked to select database. `MySQL` is most commonly used database for laravel project. Select it.
- Your project will be created after all the dependency is installed.

### Then go to the project root folder
```bash
npm install && npm run build
```

### Setup database
- If you are getting error like `SQLSTATE[HY000] [2002] Connection refused`, then please make sure your mysql database is running
- If you are getting error like `SQLSTATE[HY000] [1045] Access denied for user 'root'@'localhost' (using pas...`, then please update your `DB_PASSWORD` field of `.env` file with your root password
- Now run following command
```bash
php artisan migrate
```
- It will ask to create a database matching with your project name. Then it will create tables defined in `database/migrations` directory which is added in starter kit.

### NOTE:
`artisan` is the command line utility of Laravel. It comes integrated with your `laravel` installation.

### Run Project
- Your project is now ready. Run below command to check
```bash
php artisan serve
```
- It will run your project at http://127.0.0.1:8000


## REFERENCES:
1. https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/installation#installing-php
2. https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/starter-kits
3. https://alpinejs.dev/
4. https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/migrations