# Setting Existing Laravel Project

Most often you will be working on an existing laravel project. You will clone the project from `git` and set up the project in ur local device or production server.

## Navigate to the Project Directory
1. Open your terminal.
2. Navigate into your existing Laravel project directory:

## Install Composer Dependencies
1. If your Laravel project uses Composer for PHP dependencies, run the following command to install the required PHP packages:
```bash
composer install
```

### Install NPM Dependencies
If your Laravel project uses NPM for front-end dependencies, run the following command to install them:
```bash
npm install
```

## Configure Laravel Environment
1. Copy the `.env.example` file to create a `.env` file:
2. `cp .env.example .env`
3. Generate an application key for Laravel:
```bash
php artisan key:generate
```
4. Configure the database settings in the `.env` file to match your local development environment.

### Laravel Migrations
If your Laravel project uses a database, run migrations to set up the database schema:
```bash
php artisan migrate
```

### Serve the PHP Application
1. To serve the PHP application locally, use php artisan serve:
```bash
php artisan serve
```
2. Your Laravel application should now be accessible. Check the log in command line to check the website url.
5. And Laravel server will run at `http://localhost:8000`
6. App url will be `http://localhost`
7. Vite will run at `http://localhost:5173` by following command:
```bash
composer run dev
```

#### NOTE:
- Access the app via [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000). It will render your Vue components within the Inertia app.
- During development, changes in Vue components are hot-reloaded via Vite.
- Do not directly visit `localhost:5173`, as Vite is not responsible for serving the full `Laravel backend`. It only serves `assets`

## Building Assets (For NPM with Vite)
1. Keep Vite running in development mode with hot-reloading:
```bash
npm run dev
```
2. To create a production-ready build of your assets:
```bash
npm run build
```


Your existing `Laravel` project is now set up and running on your local machine, and assets are ready for development or testing. Enjoy working on your project!





## REFERENCES:
1. https://rhysevans.dev/blog/setting-up-an-existing-laravel-project-quick-commands